Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on Native Image and we're going to look at a more advanced topics
on the native image.
So far we've looked at the platform tool chains and why we need them to use the native image and then
how the native image works.
And then we have to point in native image to the class path and then point it to the main class, the
class file that has the main method.
We discussed the powerful external tool that the Eclipse ID provides.
I highly recommend that if you're using Eclipse, definitely take advantage of them.
External tools.
We talked about the importance of the class path and then we talked about jar dependencies and then
we talked about how to export an executable jar from eclipse or whatever your ID you use and then directly
compile the jar using the native image tool.
And now we're going to look at this topic about reflection.
And if your your if you're familiar with Java, you know that Java is power is the managed runtime environment
that it provides and obviously it's called Java.
Now, what does it mean?
It means at runtime, you as a programmer, as a developer, when you write your source code, you don't
care about memory management to some good extent, right?
In Java, ideally, you shouldn't be also caring about resource management, but unfortunately that's
usually in most cases that's the case.
But most times if you really want to go into the details, resource management is not really automatically
done by the JVM.
The idea of the finalizes was a it was not a good idea at the end and they removing them.
So resource management again is different.
But here we're talking about the managed runtime and whenever JVM, whenever you use a type in your
in your code, let's say you have a type called a complex, which represents a complex number that has
two attributes, two double numbers, one real numbers, one of them for the real part of this complex
number.
The other one is for the imagine part, right?
So whenever you want to create a complex number, for example, in this case, the JVM first needs to
understand what is this type.
So it searches the class path to find a class.
If it belongs obviously to a package, then JVM says is the fully qualified name of that type.
Right.
And then it loads the class file into memory.
Class file is the blueprint of your type, which attributes it has, how much memory the JVM has to
allocate based on the attributes, etc. If what kind of constructors it has, what's the accessibility
of those constructors, whether they're public or private, what kind of static non static method it
has, etc.?
Right.
So a class file JVM has to first load the class file into memory to understand what is the type that
you're talking about.
Now, obviously when you write the source file, in order to be able to compile your source file, you
have to have this class file, this class, this.
For example, if I want if this part of the code is part of a source file in the main method of a class,
then I should have a complex Java source code somewhere else.
And then first I have to compile this to the class file and then have it available on the class path
when I compile this entire code.
Right.
So at compile time, java compiler looks at the types that you're using and make sure that everything
is available.
Otherwise it's going it's going to refuse compiling your source file.
However, this is not always the case.
Java, because of its managed runtime, allows the flexibility to do some dynamic capabilities or basically
to dynamically load the classes at runtime.
And a class object which is defined in the JDK is just a object that models the attributes of a type,
for example, a complex class.
Obviously it has a structure, right?
It has some fields and the type of the fields are known.
It has some methods, some constructors, static methods, etc. And whenever you get a class that object
that represents that type, it means you all have you have an object of type class which holds the meta
information or all the attributes types about your particular type that you're talking about, for example,
complex.
So a class has a state, right?
Or information attributes like a type, let's say a type has a information about it, has a blueprint,
right?
A class is by itself is a type.
It's an object that holds the meta information or the information about the basically the attributes
of the other types that you're talking about.
Right.
And JVM, whenever it loads a class file, it saves all the attributes.
It restores them in a particular piece of the memory in the Java heap called Meta Space.
So one of the things that Gene provides, and sometimes that's a very nice feature to have.
It's called the dynamic class loading.
You say class four name and you provide a string which represents the fully qualified name of the type.
And then once you hold this object class, which has the meta information, you can reflectively create
an object of that type, call a constructor, call a method of that type or get a field, etc..
Right.
So part of this dynamic class loading is related to the reflection API.
Reflection means that instead of directly accessing a type and calling a method on it, you can first
access its meta information in the Java heap and then use those to to basically call a method or access
a field, etc..
Right now you might think, what is this important?
And there are very few.
There are very important use cases.
One of them is sometimes the classes are not available on the class path at compile time.
Sometimes, for example, you compile your application on your computer, but then you deploy it on
a server.
So on the server there are some extra libraries that are available which are not available on your on
your local machine when you're compiling Java application.
And the most famous example is the JDB Java database connector.
Jtbc.
You just have to dynamically load that library using class for name.
So as long as the source code has all the details hardcoded aesthetic compiler from native image or
the static analyzer will succeed in predicting reflection branches.
Now what does it mean?
Obviously Native Image wants to compile your source code or basically your classifies to a native executable
binary.
And then once that happens and you run that executable binary, it's the operating system that is running
your application.
There is no JVM, right?
So there is no managed runtime environment.
There is no reflection or meta space in the in the in the way that we talk about it when we talk about
JVM.
It's just a basically a instructions for the CPU.
Then the question is, is the job of the native image analyzer, the aesthetic analyzer and the compiler
to figure out what you're trying to do in your Java code so that it succeeds in generating the executable
file.
Now, if you directly access your type, again, this complex number class is my example here.
Let's say I have a static factory method of rate.
I give it to double numbers and it returns an object of type complex.
I can print it, I can look at the class.
Get class is just returns a class object again that holds the meta information of this type of this
complex type.
Right.
This always succeeds native image aesthetic analyzer compiler.
It doesn't have any problem because there is nothing unknown in these three lines of code.
Everything is known.
When you run the native image, obviously you have to give it a class path.
This complex number has to be on the class path so that the native image can also compile the class
file that is associated with this complex number.
So this, this, this always is the direct creation of the types directly accessing them.
But now we want to do reflective access.
For example, I want to reflectively create a complex number and call it twisting methionine.
So reflection version one is the static loading and this always succeeds with the native image.
What do we mean?
I want to call this a static factory method in the complex class.
So I hold.
First of all, static attributes don't are not associated with the state of a particular object of that
type.
Therefore you don't need to create an object first and then access that method.
Right?
Static methods are associated with the estate of the class itself.
That's why I request this a built in feature that the Java has called class on any type.
This returns a class file the class object, but it only holds the attributes of the class itself.
Right, because we haven't created any instance.
And because I want to access a static method, I just call the complex class.
And then you say get declared method.
So this is where the reflection happens because we are first accessing the meta information of this
type complex and now we are reflectively accessing or creating something, some object that represents
a method.
So get declared method, you have to hard code the name of the method and give it the parameter names.
So why do we have to provide the type of parameters?
So the type of parameters is important because just the name of a method itself is not enough to.
You can uniquely determine which method because java allows method overloading, which means in the
same class you might have multiple methods with the same name, but they have different parameter types.
So the order of parameters here matters, the type of parameters manage.
And again, whenever we talk about meta informations, whenever you talk about reflection, you don't
say, for example, double, double, you have to say double dot class, which means you're accessing
the meta information of the type of this parameter.
So the type of parameters are double, double, but we're seeing double class, double dot class.
And again, yes, even the primitive types, these are keywords.
But again, the dot class file is still works on these even primitive types.
And then I want to invoke this static method.
Note that we never mentioned that this is a static method, but it's implied because I'm using the class
object that is associated with the type, not any particular instance of that type.
So when you invoke it, you have to invoke a method on a type.
If you pass null, it means again, it's more like a a static method where you pass the parameters and
then it returns a basically obviously the method is it this returns a object here and we can typecast
it to complex if you want to really do it.
But here I'm just calling the twist string.
Obviously any object has it to a string method, so no problem here.
And then I'm also looking at the gate class and this returns a class object which is not only has the
information information about the type, but it also has meta information about the estate because this
class returns an object that is associated with one instance of this complex, which means now I can
access the values that the fields, the real and imaginary parts.
Right.
These parameters hold.
So this always succeeds if you write this code reflectively and then compile it using native image because
everything is hard coded.
Obviously this type complex type has to be available on the class path at the time that you run the
native image and then native image aesthetic analyzer looks at this string of rect and obviously it
also understands the types and looks at this type complex and sees if it has a method called of rake
that has takes two parameters, double and double.
So again, there is nothing unknown in this code.
So Native Image Aesthetic analysis succeeds even though we're using reflection now reflection version
two.
As I mentioned here, it also succeeds.
What does it mean?
Reflection version two is dynamic loading hardcoded class.
These are also sixes.
Note that here we didn't dynamically search for this type complex in the class path.
We just access it directly.
So this is direct access to the type, but it's a reflective access or reflective invocation of the
method.
Here in the third example, which is the reflection version to I'm also dynamically searching for that
class on the class path.
So class four name.
So the only difference between version two and version one is the first line, which how we get a class
object which has the meta information about this complex type here, direct access here we are dynamically
searching for that complex class.
Add the class at runtime.
What this means is that at compile time, if this complex class doesn't exist on our class path, the
Java compiler will still compile these lines of code.
It's all fine.
Obviously this class four name throws some checked exceptions, which means obviously at runtime there
might be a chance that this class is not available on a class path.
So the Java compiler enforces the handling of those exceptions, but this line by itself compiles.
Whereas if at compile time this complex class is not available on the class path, Java compiler will
refuse to compile your source file.
This line will not compile because when you are directly accessing a type that has to be available on
the class path, whereas when you are dynamically accessing a type.
And the only way to dynamically access a type is all the mechanism that the JDK or JVM provides is via
the metal objects or the metal classes, this class object.
So it's only reflection that you can dynamically search for a class on the class path at runtime.
So get the so the rest is exactly the same.
Like example version one.
The only difference is the first line and this succeeds.
So even though we defer the checking of whether this complex class exists or not to runtime, the aesthetic
analyzer of the native image still looks at this string and understands that this is a package hierarchy
and the name of the class.
And because it's already at the when you run the native image, you give it the class path.
So at the compile time, native image knows which directory is on the class path.
So the aesthetic analyzer searches into all the directories on the class path and then searches for
this type it if it's available and then it searches for this method.
And then if everything is available, the static compilation succeeds because again there is nothing
unknown at compile time for the aesthetic analyzer of the native image.
This is different for again Java compiler because this string, the Java compiler doesn't care what
this basically a string is.
Right?
It doesn't check if this this is a valid string pointing to a fully qualified name of a type at compile
time.
Java compiler doesn't care, but it enforces you to handle the exception.
If this type this is not a valid string or it's not available on the class path at runtime, not compile
time.
So again, I want to really make sure you understand these two differences, right?
Java compiler doesn't care what the contents of this string is.
It just tells you, okay, I don't care.
But if something happens at runtime when you launch your application, I just force you to handle the
exceptions.
Whereas the native image static analyzer, it completely cares about what this is.
Right?
Even if this is not a valid string, native image is still compiles your application.
But obviously when you launch your binary it's going to fail because it tells you I cannot find this
class complex.
Now the last reflection version.
Version three Dynamic loading.
But the class is not hardcoded.
Let's call this soft coded, soft coded class, which means we're not providing a hardcoded string for
the type, but we are even deferring that to runtime.
We're telling the EVM, Hey, at runtime somebody passes the fully qualified name of a class as the
command line argument to our application.
And after you get that, go ahead and search for it on a class path and then create this and then we're
going to call this object, etc..
Right.
Obviously this Java compiler is still enforces you to handle the exception, but this is still compiles
with the Java compiler.
But as you can probably guess, there is no way for the static analyzer of the native image to understand
what this are.
Zero, right?
This is the first command line argument to your job application is going to be there is no way for a
static analyzer to understand what's going on because the string is not hardcoded.
We're saying that it's even even this string is provided at runtime, not only if we're telling the
JVM or the Native Image compiler that this class, this type is available, just look for it at runtime.
We're also think that which class it is, even that question is deferred to runtime.
So this will so this version three is going to fail.
So if the class name is not hardcoded, the static compiler will fail.
What this means is that the Native Image compiler will tell you, I don't know, but I'm going to fall
back to a to creating a binary that is backed by JDK.
You need a JDK and executable file that native image generates is just a launcher for Java.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's head to Eclipse and try to compile these four versions.
Direct version one of reflection, version two, version three, and see to make sure that the three
cases, the first three cases succeed, the last case fails, and then figure out what kind of obviously
reflection is a big part of the gvm right Java ecosystem.
So Native Image should provide some tools to also to some extent handle these cases.
Right.
So let's head to Eclipse here.
I have my code, I have this reflection demo and I have I'm using this complex number class which is
a dependency from a jar.
So in eclipse ID you just right click on your jar file wherever it is build path and add it to the build
path.
I've already added it and Eclipse has this very nice graphical view of which jar files are already on
your class path and obviously you can also add them to your module path.
I've added them in my class path and there is a top level package util for j.
And then there is complex and then complex class.
Right.
All right.
So direct access.
I am directly calling this aesthetic factory method and then creating a complex type and calling the
twist string.
And also looking at the class object.
And then.
And reflection version one is a static loading, which means I call the meta information of the type
by directly accessing the type.
Get a method handler we call this.
And so this method, this returns a method object, which I like to call it a method handler.
A method handler is a object that handles invocation of that method.
Right?
That's how the reflection model works, or the way the JDK provides reflective access.
And then with the method handler you call invoke, obviously this is a static method, so no reference
object, right?
So you just pass the parameters and then it returns an object.
So you cast it to a complex if you want to be more precise and then you call it string on it.
So if I run this, this is going to succeed.
Yeah.
And everything works fine.
And we can also make sure that if we compile, this is going to work fine.
So I'm going to select my reflection demo and we've already set up our native image compiler external
tool to refresh your memory working directory.
We set it to project location, hyphen, class path we pass.
We definitely use the internal environment variable of the eclipse, which is project class path eclipse
is already full of all the jar files, everything that is on the class path and then Java type name.
This is the fully qualified name of the class file which is associated with the Java file that we select
in this we in this tree view.
And then I'm telling it from the working directory, go inside the native image folder which is in the
project location and then create a binary executable file which has the name, which has the name,
which has the same name as the fully qualified name of my class.
Right?
So that's how we said we should set it up and then we just run it and we will see that this is going
to succeed.
So it starts generating the native image.
And let's wait to to finish compiling.
I'm using the most recent version at the time of recording this tutorial, which is 20 2.1.0, which
comes with the JDK 17.
Obviously, I'm on the macOS platform.
We're using the native toolchain of Apple Klang.
So everything so far, so good.
And.
It figured out all the methods in Lightning compilation is the final stage, and after that, linking
and everything worked fine.
It took us about 40 seconds inside this native.
If you refresh this, we get our application.
And again, I've set it up so that the name of the binary is the fully qualified name.
Which means the package that the class.
So if I open up a terminal here, I should be able to execute this binary and get the results.
So.
Yeah, so.
Java native image that reflection demo.
If we run it, everything works fine.
So Native Image compiler works.
There was no complaint and and in the execution succeeds even though we are using a reflective axis.
That's still fine because native image and knows everything about this is able to compile.
What about version two?
So in version two, I tell the if I run this, basically I'm telling the JV team, hey, at runtime.
So the compiler, Java compiler doesn't care about what this string is and obviously it asks.
I'm just throwing out all the exceptions.
Remember, reflective access requires lots of check exceptions to be handled.
For example, for class, for name this throws.
Let's look at the documentation.
Throws linkage error exception in initialize error class not found exception.
Right.
If this string is not a valid string or if it's a valid fully qualified name but it's not available
on a class path at runtime you get these kind of exceptions.
So but if everything works fine, we should be able to run and get exactly the same result.
If I change this name, obviously this complex one doesn't exist on the class path.
So if I run this, I get class not found exception at runtime.
Right.
But the compiler java compiler doesn't care.
Whereas previously here.
Let's quickly go back.
Java compiler doesn't care about this line.
So if I say complex one, obviously this is not going to compile because it says that it's not available
on the class path.
Right.
So always prefer to directly access the types, which means they they should be available on the class
path at compile time.
But sometimes you really want to go for reflective access.
So this one works.
And let's make sure that we can compile with the native image and this reflective axis still work.
So select our Java file, run the external tool and we wait until the compilation finishes.
And after this, we will run the third version and you will see that this is going to fail.
Native image will give us a message that, hey, I wasn't able to figure out what's going on here on
this line class for name org zero.
Because when you say our zero, you don't hardcoded the string again, it means somebody is going to
provide the name of this type to be searched by the runtime add at the runtime itself.
And this is impossible for a static analyzer to figure out what it's going to be, right?
So if we go back to our terminal and launch this again, this is still works fine, right?
No complaints, no errors, nothing.
This reflective axis, the native image, was able to do this perfectly.
Now, finally, the third example is this one.
And obviously, if we run this in eclipse, it's going to fail because we're telling it somebody is
going to provide this.
This argument.
So Eclipse creates a launch configuration so we can go.
And in the arguments provide the program arguments you tell forge complex complex in eclipse ID program
arguments or is that a string array that is going to be passed to the main method?
So apply close and run this again and now this succeeds, right?
So everything works fine because we are providing this argument which is essentially the same as string
here.
Now let's see what happens when we try to compile this version using the native image.
So select our Java run native image.
Now.
This time you will see that the native image warns us about the fact that it couldn't figure out that
reflection part of the code.
And it's going to tell us I'm actually failing the compilation, but I'm going to do a fallback on the
and then create a fallback version, which means it requires a JVM or JDK to be launched.
So warning reflection method Java Land class get declared method invoked at Java Native Image Main Method
Line 34 Aborting a standalone image belt due to reflection use without configuration.
Now in the next lecture I will discuss what this configuration is because you have to now give the Native
Image compiler more information about what's going on and you will see that native image actually provides
a tool to automatically generate these kind of configuration files.
So basically here the the compilation failed in the in building the universe so fail generating but
you see the the native image runs one more time but this time the compilation it looks like it succeeds.
But there is a warning at the end that this image or native executable file is a fallback image that
requires a JDK for execution.
What this means is that this binary that it generated, it's just a launcher for Java, right?
And it says if you use hyphen, hyphen, no fallback argument, I won't do this kind of fallback generation
automatically.
Right?
So right now we got a executable file, which is a fallback.
And if we try to go ahead and run it, it's going to could not find or load main class reflection demo
so this basically fail.
So in the next lecture, I will show you how to actually fix this problem by providing more information
to the Native Image compiler.
So please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.